                                                AUTOSCALING ET ELB

Mise à l'échelle et équilibrage de charge de votre architecture
Aperçu du laboratoire
Dans cet atelier, vous utiliserez Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) et Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling pour équilibrer la charge et faire évoluer automatiquement votre infrastructure.

ELB distribue automatiquement le trafic des applications entrant sur plusieurs instances Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2). ELB fournit la quantité de capacité d'équilibrage de charge nécessaire pour acheminer le trafic des applications afin de vous aider à atteindre la tolérance aux pannes dans vos applications.

Auto Scaling vous aide à maintenir la disponibilité des applications et vous donne la possibilité d'augmenter ou de diminuer automatiquement votre capacité Amazon EC2 en fonction des conditions que vous définissez. Vous pouvez utiliser la mise à l'échelle automatique pour vous assurer que vous exécutez le nombre souhaité d'instances EC2. La mise à l'échelle automatique peut également augmenter automatiquement le nombre d'instances EC2 lors des pics de demande afin de maintenir les performances et peut diminuer la capacité pendant les accalmies pour réduire les coûts. La mise à l'échelle automatique est bien adaptée aux applications qui ont des modèles de demande stables ou qui connaissent une variabilité d'utilisation horaire, quotidienne ou hebdomadaire.  

Voici l'architecture de départ :

Architecture de démarrage montrant l'infrastructure AWS avec le serveur Web 1 dans le sous-réseau public.

Voici l'architecture finale :

Architecture finale affichant les instances ELB et EC2 dans le groupe Auto Scaling dans des sous-réseaux privés répartis sur 2 zones de disponibilité

Objectifs
Après avoir terminé cet atelier, vous devriez être capable d'effectuer les opérations suivantes :

Créez une AMI à partir d'une instance EC2.

Créez un équilibreur de charge.

Créez un modèle de lancement et un groupe Auto Scaling.

Configurez un groupe Auto Scaling pour mettre à l'échelle de nouvelles instances au sein de sous-réseaux privés.

Utilisez les alarmes Amazon CloudWatch pour surveiller les performances de votre infrastructure.

 

Durée
Cet atelier nécessite environ 45 minutes .

 

Accès à la console de gestion AWS
En haut de ces instructions, choisissez Démarrer Lab pour lancer votre laboratoire.

Astuce : Si vous avez besoin de plus de temps pour terminer l'atelier, choisissez Redémarrez Lab pour redémarrer le minuteur de l'environnement.

Les ressources du laboratoire seront affichées dans le coin supérieur gauche :

AWSindique que les ressources du laboratoire AWS sont en cours de création.

AWSindique que les ressources du laboratoire AWS sont prêtes.

Attendez que le laboratoire soit prêt avant de continuer.

En haut de ces instructions, choisissez AWS.

Cette option ouvre la AWS Management Console dans un nouvel onglet de navigateur. Le système vous connecte automatiquement.

Astuce : Si un nouvel onglet du navigateur ne s'ouvre pas, une bannière ou une icône en haut de votre navigateur indiquera que votre navigateur empêche le site d'ouvrir des fenêtres contextuelles. Choisissez la bannière ou l'icône, puis choisissez Autoriser les fenêtres contextuelles .

Organisez la AWS Management Console de manière à ce qu'elle apparaisse à côté de ces instructions. Idéalement, vous pourrez voir les deux onglets du navigateur en même temps afin de pouvoir suivre les étapes du laboratoire.

 Do not change the lab Region unless specifically instructed to do so.

 

Task 1: Creating an AMI for auto scaling
In this task, you create an AMI from the existing Web Server 1. This action saves the contents of the boot disk so that new instances can be launched with identical content.

On the AWS Management Console, in the Search bar, enter and choose EC2 to open the Amazon EC2 Management Console.

In the left navigation pane, locate the Instances section, and choose Instances.

The Web Server 1 instance is listed. You now create an AMI based on this instance.

Choose the  Web Server 1 instance, which should appear in a  Running state.

From the Actions  dropdown list, choose Image and templates > Create image, and then configure the following options:

For Image name, enter Web Server AMI

For Image description - optional, enter Lab AMI for Web Server    

Choose Create image.

The confirmation screen displays the AMI ID for your new AMI. You use this AMI when launching the Auto Scaling group later in the lab.

 

Task 2: Creating a load balancer
In this task, you create a load balancer that can balance traffic across multiple EC2 instances and Availability Zones.

In the left navigation pane, locate the Load Balancing section, and choose Load Balancers.

Choose Create load balancer.

In the Load balancer types section, for Application Load Balancer, choose Create.

On the Create Application Load Balancer page, in the Basic configuration section, configure the following option:

For the Load balancer name, enter LabELB

In the Network mapping section, configure the following options:

For VPC, choose Lab VPC.

For Mappings, choose both Availability Zones listed.

For the first Availability Zone, choose Public Subnet 1.

For the second Availability Zone, choose Public Subnet 2.

These options configure the load balancer to operate across multiple Availability Zones.

In the Security groups section, choose the X for the default security group to remove it.

From the Security groups dropdown list, choose Web Security Group.

The Web Security Group has already been created for you, which permits HTTP access.

In the Listeners and routing section, choose the Create target group link.

Note: This link opens a new browser tab with the Create target group configuration options.

On the new Target groups browser tab, in the Basic configuration section, configure the following:

For Choose a target type, choose Instances.

For Target group name, enter lab-target-group

At the bottom of the page, choose Next.

On the Register targets page, choose Create target group.

Once the target group has been created successfully, close the Target groups browser tab.

Return to the Load balancers browser tab. In the Listeners and routing section, choose  Refresh to the right of the Forward to dropdown list for Default action.

From the Forward to dropdown list, choose lab-target-group.

At the bottom of the page, choose Create load balancer.

   You should receive a message similar to the following:

    Successfully created load balancer: LabELB

To view the LabELB load balancer that you created, choose View load balancer.

To copy the DNS name of the load balancer, use the copy option , and paste the DNS name into a text editor. 

You need this information later in the lab.

 

Task 3: Creating a launch template
In this task, you create a launch template for your Auto Scaling group. A launch template is a template that an Auto Scaling group uses to launch EC2 instances. When you create a launch template, you specify information for the instances, such as the AMI, instance type, key pair, security group, and disks.

At the top of the AWS Management Console, in the search bar, enter and choose EC2

In the left navigation pane, locate the Instances section, and choose Launch Templates.

Choose Create launch template.

On the Create launch template page, in the Launch template name and description section, configure the following options:

For Launch template name - required, enter lab-app-launch-template

For Template version description, enter A web server for the load test app

For Auto Scaling guidance, choose  Provide guidance to help me set up a template that I can use with EC2 Auto Scaling.

In the Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image) - required section, choose the My AMIs tab. Notice that Web Server AMI is already chosen.

In the Instance type section, choose the Instance type dropdown list, and choose t3.micro.

In the Key pair (login) section, confirm that the Key pair name dropdown list is set to Don't include in launch template.

   Amazon EC2 uses public key cryptography to encrypt and decrypt login information. To log in to your instance, you must create a key pair, specify the name of the key pair when you launch the instance, and provide the private key when you connect to the instance.

  Note: In this lab, you do not need to connect to the instance.

In the Network settings section, choose the Security groups dropdown list, and choose Web Security Group.

  When you launch an instance, you can pass user data to the instance. The data can be used to run configuration tasks and scripts.

Choose Create launch template.

		You should receive a message similar to the following:

		 Successfully created lab-app-launch-template.

Choose View launch templates.

 

Task 4: Creating an Auto Scaling group
In this task, you use your launch template to create an Auto Scaling group.

Choose  lab-app-launch-template, and then from the Actions  dropdown list, choose Create Auto Scaling group

On the Choose launch template or configuration page, in the Name section, for Auto Scaling group name, enter Lab Auto Scaling Group

Choose Next.

On the Choose instance launch options page, in the Network section, configure the following options:

From the VPC dropdown list, choose Lab VPC.

From the Availability Zones and subnets dropdown list, choose Private Subnet 1 (10.0.1.0/24) and Private Subnet 2 (10.0.3.0/24). 

Choose Next.

On the Configure advanced options – optional page, configure the following options: 

In the Load balancing – optional section, choose Attach to an existing load balancer.

In the Attach to an existing load balancer section, configure the following options:

Choose Choose from your load balancer target groups.

From the Existing load balancer target groups dropdown list, choose lab-target-group | HTTP.

In the Health checks – optional section, for Health check type, choose  ELB.

Choose Next.

On the Configure group size and scaling policies – optional page, configure the following options: 

In the Group size – optional section, enter the following values: 

Desired capacity:2

Minimum capacity: 2

Maximum capacity: 4

In the Scaling policies – optional section, configure the following options:

Choose  Target tracking scaling policy.

For Metric type, choose Average CPU utilization.

Change the Target value to 50

This change tells Auto Scaling to maintain an average CPU utilization across all instances of 50 percent. Auto Scaling automatically adds or removes capacity as required to keep the metric at or close to the specified target value. It adjusts to fluctuations in the metric due to a fluctuating load pattern.

Choose Next.

On the Add notifications – optional page, choose Next.

On the Add tags – optional page, choose Add tag and configure the following options:

Key: Enter Name

Value - optional: Enter Lab Instance

Choose Next.

Choose Create Auto Scaling group.

These options launch EC2 instances in private subnets across both Availability Zones.

Your Auto Scaling group initially shows an Instances count of zero, but new instances will be launched to reach the desired count of two instances.

Note: If you experience an error related to the t3.micro instance type not being available, then rerun this task by choosing the t2.micro instance type instead.

 

Task 5: Verifying that load balancing is working
In this task, you verify that load balancing is working correctly.

In the left navigation pane, locate the Instances section, and choose Instances.

You should see two new instances named Lab Instance. These instances were launched by auto scaling.  If the instances or names are not displayed, wait 30 seconds, and then choose refresh .

First, you confirm that the new instances have passed their health check.

In the left navigation pane, in the Load Balancing section, choose Target Groups.

Choose lab-target-group.

In the Registered targets section, two Lab Instance targets should be listed for this target group.

Wait until the Health status of both instances changes to healthy. To check for updates, choose refresh .

A healthy status indicates that an instance has passed the load balancer's health check. This check means that the load balancer will send traffic to the instance.

You can now access the instances launched in the Auto Scaling group using the load balancer.

Open a new web browser tab, paste the DNS name that you copied before, and press Enter.

The Load Test application should appear in your browser, which means that the load balancer received the request, sent it to one of the EC2 instances, and then passed back the result.

 

Task 6: Testing auto scaling
You created an Auto Scaling group with a minimum of two instances and a maximum of four instances. Currently, two instances are running because the minimum size is two and the group is currently not under any load. You now increase the load to cause auto scaling to add additional instances.

Return to the AWS Management Console, but keep the Load Test application tab open. You return to this tab soon.

In the AWS Management Console, in the search bar, enter and choose CloudWatch

In the left navigation pane, in the Alarms section, choose All alarms.

Two alarms are displayed. The Auto Scaling group automatically created these two alarms. These alarms automatically keep the average CPU load close to 50 percent while also staying within the limitation of having 2–4 instances.

Choose the alarm that has AlarmHigh in its name. This alarm should have a State of OK.

 If the alarm is not showing OK for the State, wait a minute and then choose refresh  until the State changes.

The OK state indicates that the alarm has not been initiated. It is the alarm for CPU Utilization > 50, which adds instances when the average CPU utilization is high. The chart should show very low levels of CPU at the moment. 

You now tell the application to perform calculations that should raise the CPU level.

Return to the browser tab with the Load Test application.

Next to the AWS logo, choose Load Test.

This step causes the application to generate high loads. The browser page automatically refreshes so that all instances in the Auto Scaling group will generate loads. Do not close this tab.

Return to browser tab with the CloudWatch Management Console.

In less than 5 minutes, the AlarmLow alarm status should change to OK, and the AlarmHigh alarm status should change to In alarm.

 To update the display, choose refresh  every 60 seconds.

You should see the AlarmHigh chart indicating an increasing CPU percentage. Once it crosses the 50 percent line for more than 3 minutes, it initiates auto scaling to add additional instances.

Wait until the AlarmHigh alarm enters the In alarm state.

You can now view the additional instance or instances that were launched.

In the AWS Management Console, in the search bar, enter and choose EC2 

In the left navigation pane, locate the Instances section, and choose Instances.

More than two instances named Lab Instance should now be running. Auto scaling created the new instances in response to the alarm.

 

Task 7: Terminating the Web Server 1 instance
In this task, you terminate the Web Server 1 instance. This instance was used to create the AMI that your Auto Scaling group used, but this instance is no longer needed.

Choose  Web Server 1, and ensure that it is the only instance selected.

From the Instance state  dropdown menu, choose Terminate instance.

Choose Terminate.

 

Optional challenge: Creating an AMI using AWS CLI
 This challenge is optional and is provided in case you have lab time remaining.

In this challenge, you need to create an AMI using AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) commands.

The following are your tasks:

Use Amazon EC2 Instance Connect to connect to one of the EC2 instances that you created earlier.

At the top of this page, choose AWS Details. For AWS CLI, choose Show. Configure AWS credentials based on the information provided.

For more information about how to configure AWS credentials, see Configuration and Credential File Settings.

After you have configured the credentials, create an AMI using AWS CLI. 

For more information about how to create an AMI using AWS CLI, see AWS CLI Command Reference Examples.

Tip: You need to provide the AMI name and instance ID of the EC2 instance that you need the image for.

 

Conclusion
Congratulations! You now have successfully done the following:

Created an AMI from an EC2 instance.

Création d'un équilibreur de charge.

Création d'un modèle de lancement et d'un groupe Auto Scaling.

Configuration d'un groupe Auto Scaling pour mettre à l'échelle de nouvelles instances au sein de sous-réseaux privés.

Utilisation des alarmes CloudWatch pour surveiller les performances de votre infrastructure.

 

Laboratoire terminé
Toutes nos félicitations! Vous avez terminé l'atelier.

En haut de cette page, choisissez Terminer l’atelier , puis choisissez Oui pour confirmer que vous souhaitez mettre fin à l’atelier.  

Un message « Ended AWS Lab Successfully » s'affiche brièvement pour indiquer que l'atelier est terminé.

Ressources additionnelles
Mise à l'échelle automatique Amazon EC2 – Mise en route

Premiers pas avec Elastic Load Balancing

Pour plus d'informations sur AWS Training and Certification, consultez AWS Training and Certification .

Vos commentaires sont les bienvenus et appréciés.

Si vous souhaitez partager des suggestions ou des corrections, veuillez fournir les détails dans notre formulaire de contact AWS Training and Certification .

© 2023, Amazon Web Services, Inc. ou ses filiales. Tous droits réservés. Ce travail ne peut pas être reproduit ou redistribué, en tout ou en partie, sans l'autorisation écrite préalable d'Amazon Web Services, Inc. La copie, le prêt ou la vente commerciale sont interdits.